# MSM5232 style wave samples
MSM5232 style wave samples and TX16Wx programs


## What's this
This repository contains:
- MSM5232 style loopable wave files which is generated by custom program
- Programs for TX16Wx


### MSM5232 style loopable wave files which was generated by custom program
MSM5232 was originally manufactured by OKI Electric Industry, Japan.
It was used in KORG Poly-800 synthesizer as digital controlled oscillator aka DCO (and combined NJM2069 VCF).
Also, Roland EM-101 uses MSM5232 as its DCO (and combined IR-3109 VCF is same as A1QH800170 or A1QH80017A which was deployed into JUNO-106).

The wave files in this repository are designed for perfect loop with embedded loop markers.
Sampler software which supports "smpl" chunk will recognize the loop information such as loop points and root note (Tested with DirectWave in FL Studio and TX16Wx).

If your sampler does not recognize loop information, you should manually specify loop range from start to end of waveform (i.e. entire waveform).


### Programs for TX16Wx
The *.txprog files is for TX16Wx sampler software.
TX16Wx has some data file, *.txprog is a program file.

The filename (5232_ABCD_E.txprog or 5232_ABCD_E_F_G.wav) meaning is described below:
|Symbol|meaning|
|------|-------|
|A|Fundamental frequency (f=f[Hz]) is enabled (1:true/0:false)|
|B|2nd harmonics (f=2f[Hz]) is enabled (1:true/0:false)|
|C|3rd harmonics (f=4f[Hz]) is enabled (1:true/0:false)|
|D|4th harmonics (f=8f[Hz]) is enabled (1:true/0:false)|
|E|Nth harmonics level is decreased as 1/(2^(n-1)) (1:true/0:false)|
|F|"Add" means additive synthessis method was used for anti-aliasing|
|G|MIDI notenumber|

Other filenames (5232_*.txprog) are some example of TX16Wx program.


## Some information
If your sampler and DAW is native to 88.2kHz or ideal anti-aliasing algorithm is applied, there will be no aliasing noise will be appear.
Unfortunately, FL Studio 20 and DirectWave or TX16Wx will cause aliasing noise in higer region.

In EM-101, DCO setting is described below:
|Patch Name|A,B,C,D,E setting|
|----------|-----------------|
|Ensemble: Strings 1|1,1,1,1,1|
|Ensemble: Strings 2|1,1,1,1,1|
|Ensemble: Organ 1|1,1,1,1,0|
|Ensemble: Organ 2|1,1,1,0,0|
|Ensemble: Organ 3|1,0,0,1,0|
|Ensemble: Brass 1|1,1,1,1,1|
|Ensemble: Brass 2|1,1,1,1,1|
|Ensemble: Synth|0,1,1,0,0|
|Solo: Bass 1|1,1,1,0,1|
|Solo: Bass 2|1,1,1,0,1|
|Solo: Cello|1,1,1,0,1|
|Solo: Clarinet|1,0,0,0,1|
|Solo: Flute|1,1,1,1,1|
|Solo: Violin|1,1,1,1,1|
|Solo: Synth 1|1,1,1,1,1|
|Solo: Synth 2|1,1,1,0,1|

---
The names of products or companies are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. These companies have no relation to this project.
